# Converting-annotations-xml2yolo
This repo is created as a tutorial for converting annotations in an image to convert from .xml to YOLO .txt format. As we have looked into creating a database for road damage detection, we found annotations in different formats. We trained the image detection model on YOLO algorithm, hence it was necessary to convert the annotations found in different format to YOLO .txt format. For converting the annotations from .json to YOLO .txt format [Converting-annotation-from-JSON-to-YOLO-format](https://github.com/TahmidTowsifAhmed/Converting-annotation-from-JSON-to-YOLO-format). This repository consists of a script that can convert the scripts from .xml to YOLO .txt format and based on that splitting the dataset into training, tesing and validation dataset.

## Conversion of the .xml annotaion to YOLO .txt format
Download [xml2yolo.py](https://github.com/TahmidTowsifAhmed/Converting-annotations-xml2yolo/blob/main/xml2yolo.py) to your working directory. Save the .xml annotations and images to be annotated in the same directory. Then open the script. As you run the script, it will create a new directory in the "iamges" in the same folder. This will consist all the converted annotations. Besides it will create one `classes.txt` file in the same directory, that will show the name of the different representing classes in the annotations.

## Split the dataset
Download [split_dataset.py](https://github.com/TahmidTowsifAhmed/Converting-annotations-xml2yolo/blob/main/split_dataset.py) to your working directory. To split the images into your desired proportion, change vlaues from line 31/32. Line 31 will only split the dataset into train and validation dataset. Line 32 will also include testing data. Use the desired one and comment out the one which is not reuired. Then run the script and it will give you your solit dataset.
